[2.0] dvc.yaml: doc isexec field (#2039)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories.md

  and a special _checksum_ for HDFS and WebHDFS.
- `size`: Size of the file or directory (sum of all files).
- `nfiles`: If a directory, number of files inside.

> - `isexec`: If a file, whether or not owner has execute permission. On Windows,
>   it is not saved and, if set manually, won't have any effect on `dvc checkout`
>   and `dvc pull`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `isexec`: Whether this is an executable file. DVC preserves execute
  permissions upon `dvc checkout` and `dvc pull`. This has no effect on
  directories, or in general on Windows.
```

(same for `deps`)

Reviewer: Questions:

- Do we want to specify "preserves POSIX execute permissions"? (possibly [linked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File-system_permissions#Traditional_Unix_permissions))
  TBH I see no need since we say it doesn't work on Windows so it's easy to infer why.
- "upon `dvc checkout` and `dvc pull`" - are these the only commands it affects? What about `add` or `commit` (when tracking stuff which moves it to the cache and then links back @efiop?

Thanks

Author: > Do we want to specify "preserves POSIX execute permissions"? (possibly linked)
TBH I see no need since we say it doesn't work on Windows so it's easy to infer why.

Thought about it too, but I feel it is generally understood as is, so I wouldn't clarify it more.

> "upon dvc checkout and dvc pull" - are these the only commands it affects? What about add or commit (when tracking stuff which moves it to the cache and then links back @efiop?

Pretty much yes. `add/commit` take existing file and add/commit it, so on windows there is nothing to capture - no exec bit to set. `checkout/pull` is when the exec bit is coming from another machine (e.g. your collegue on linux) or set by hand, and thats where it is better to clarify it.

Reviewer: Hmm. I just tried this on Ubuntu (WSL) and DVC (1.11.8) removes the exec bit upon `add`. No reflinks on my system though so it's a copy, but the file doesn't have exec on either.

Reviewer: \* but the cached file

Author: @jorgeorpinel 1.11.8 doesn't have that patch yet and it is expected for it to not preserve exc. You need to try upstream dvc.

Reviewer: Sure but my question was: since add does remove the exec bit so, will the `exec` field affect add after all? Thinking about it that doesn't make sense as there is no .dvc file prior to add/commit so I'm re-approving this, but will there be perhaps a new flag on those options to do this?

Reviewer: \*on those commands

Author: @jorgeorpinel Do you mean a flag to set isexec value through CLI? Not really, there is no need.

Reviewer: p.s. Nvmd here. I asked the Q in the OP instead.

Reviewer: Oh I see you answered here. OK

  _checksum_ for HDFS and WebHDFS. See `dvc import-url` for more information.
- `size`: Size of the file or directory (sum of all files).
- `nfiles`: If a directory, number of files inside.

> - `isexec`: Whether this is an executable file. DVC preserves execute

Reviewer 2: hmm, sorry guys .. I'm way too late (and approving this PR) ... just to clarify - what does it mean for _deps_. I though pull/checkout do now do anything to deps?

How would it work if out say exec:True and dep says exec:False?

Author: Oops, this was not meant to be here. Deleting.

> - `isexec`: If a file, whether or not owner has execute permission. On Windows,
>   it is not saved and, if set manually, won't have any effect on `dvc checkout`
>   and `dvc pull`.

Reviewer: Committing here too for now:
```suggestion
- `isexec`: Whether this is an executable file. DVC preserves execute
  permissions upon `dvc checkout` and `dvc pull`. This has no effect on
  directories, or in general on Windows.
```

> - `isexec`: Whether this is an executable file. DVC preserves execute
>   permissions upon `dvc checkout` and `dvc pull`. This has no effect on
>   directories, or in general on Windows.

Author: ```suggestion
```
